README.md, before:

<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->
[![GoDoc](https://img.shields.io/badge/Godoc-reference-blue.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go)
[![Language](https://img.shields.io/badge/Language-Go-blue.svg)](https://golang.org/)
[![LICENSE](https://img.shields.io/hexpm/l/pulsar.svg)](https://github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go/blob/master/LICENSE)
# Apache Pulsar Go Client Library

A Go client library for the [Apache Pulsar](https://pulsar.incubator.apache.org/) project.

## Goal

This projects is developing a pure-Go client library for Pulsar that does not
depend on the C++ Pulsar library.

Once feature parity and stability are reached, this will supersede the current
CGo based library.

## Requirements

- Go 1.15+

## Status

Check the Projects page at https://github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go/projects for
tracking the status and the progress.

## Usage

Import the client library:

```go
import "github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go/pulsar"
```

Create a Producer:

```go
client, err := pulsar.NewClient(pulsar.ClientOptions{
    URL: "pulsar://localhost:6650",
})

defer client.Close()

producer, err := client.CreateProducer(pulsar.ProducerOptions{
	Topic: "my-topic",
})

_, err = producer.Send(context.Background(), &pulsar.ProducerMessage{
	Payload: []byte("hello"),
})

defer producer.Close()

if err != nil {
    fmt.Println("Failed to publish message", err)
} else {
    fmt.Println("Published message")
}
```

Create a Consumer:

```go
client, err := pulsar.NewClient(pulsar.ClientOptions{
    URL: "pulsar://localhost:6650",
})

defer client.Close()

consumer, err := client.Subscribe(pulsar.ConsumerOptions{
        Topic:            "my-topic",
        SubscriptionName: "my-sub",
        Type:             pulsar.Shared,
    })

defer consumer.Close()

msg, err := consumer.Receive(context.Background())
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }

fmt.Printf("Received message msgId: %#v -- content: '%s'\n",
            msg.ID(), string(msg.Payload()))

```

Create a Reader:

```go
client, err := pulsar.NewClient(pulsar.ClientOptions{URL: "pulsar://localhost:6650"})
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}

defer client.Close()

reader, err := client.CreateReader(pulsar.ReaderOptions{
	Topic:          "topic-1",
	StartMessageID: pulsar.EarliestMessageID(),
})
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
defer reader.Close()

for reader.HasNext() {
	msg, err := reader.Next(context.Background())
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}

	fmt.Printf("Received message msgId: %#v -- content: '%s'\n",
		msg.ID(), string(msg.Payload()))
}
```

## Build and Test

Build the sources:

    go build ./pulsar

Run the unit tests:

    ./docker-ci.sh

## Contributing

Contributions are welcomed and greatly appreciated. See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on submitting patches and the contribution workflow.

## Contact

##### Mailing lists

| Name                                                      | Scope                           |                                                       |                                                           |                                                                    |
|:----------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [users@pulsar.apache.org](mailto:users@pulsar.apache.org) | User-related discussions        | [Subscribe](mailto:users-subscribe@pulsar.apache.org) | [Unsubscribe](mailto:users-unsubscribe@pulsar.apache.org) | [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/pulsar-users/) |
| [dev@pulsar.apache.org](mailto:dev@pulsar.apache.org)     | Development-related discussions | [Subscribe](mailto:dev-subscribe@pulsar.apache.org)   | [Unsubscribe](mailto:dev-unsubscribe@pulsar.apache.org)   | [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/pulsar-dev/)   |

##### Slack

Pulsar slack channel `#dev-go` at https://apache-pulsar.slack.com/

You can self-register at https://apache-pulsar.herokuapp.com/

## License

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

## Troubleshooting

### Go module 'ambiguous import' error

If you've upgraded from a previous version of this library, you may run into an 'ambigous import' error when building.

```
github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go/oauth2: ambiguous import: found package github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go/oauth2 in multiple modules
```

The fix for this is to make sure you don't have any references in your `go.mod` file to the old oauth2 module path.  So remove any lines
similar to the following, and then run `go mod tidy`.

```
github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go/oauth2 v0.0.0-20220630195735-e95cf0633348 // indirect
```

Commit message:

ci: add makefile (#800)
* ci: add makefile

- add a Makefile with basic build, test, clean, etc.
- simplify the Dockerfile by moving some scripts and conf files to directories
- update README
- allow easy setting of GOLANG version and PULSAR version for testing

Signed-off-by: Paul Gier <paul.gier@datastax.com>

* dockerfile: copy individual conf files

Copy individual config files instead of directory when building the Dockerfile to catch any missing/incorrect files.

Signed-off-by: Paul Gier <paul.gier@datastax.com>

* update apache pulsar link in readme

Signed-off-by: Paul Gier <paul.gier@datastax.com>

Signed-off-by: Paul Gier <paul.gier@datastax.com>

Makefiles are commonly used for building golang projects.

- add a Makefile with basic build, test, clean, etc.
- simplify the Dockerfile by moving some scripts and conf files to directories
- update README
- Allows easy overriding of pulsar version and golang version used during testing

### Motivation

Add a Makefile to make it easier to remember the commands for building and testing the project.  For example:
* `make build` instead of `go build ./pulsar`
* `make test` instead of `./docker-ci.sh`
* `make lint` instead of `golangci-lint run`

README.md, after:

<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->
[![GoDoc](https://img.shields.io/badge/Godoc-reference-blue.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go)
[![Language](https://img.shields.io/badge/Language-Go-blue.svg)](https://golang.org/)
[![LICENSE](https://img.shields.io/hexpm/l/pulsar.svg)](https://github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go/blob/master/LICENSE)
# Apache Pulsar Go Client Library

A Go client library for [Apache Pulsar](https://pulsar.apache.org/).

## Purpose

This project is a pure-Go client library for Pulsar that does not
depend on the C++ Pulsar library.

Once feature parity and stability are reached, this will supersede the current
CGo based library.

## Requirements

- Go 1.15+

## Status

Check the Projects page at https://github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go/projects for
tracking the status and the progress.

## Usage

Import the client library:

```go
import "github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go/pulsar"
```

Create a Producer:

```go
client, err := pulsar.NewClient(pulsar.ClientOptions{
    URL: "pulsar://localhost:6650",
})

defer client.Close()

producer, err := client.CreateProducer(pulsar.ProducerOptions{
	Topic: "my-topic",
})

_, err = producer.Send(context.Background(), &pulsar.ProducerMessage{
	Payload: []byte("hello"),
})

defer producer.Close()

if err != nil {
    fmt.Println("Failed to publish message", err)
} else {
    fmt.Println("Published message")
}
```

Create a Consumer:

```go
client, err := pulsar.NewClient(pulsar.ClientOptions{
    URL: "pulsar://localhost:6650",
})

defer client.Close()

consumer, err := client.Subscribe(pulsar.ConsumerOptions{
        Topic:            "my-topic",
        SubscriptionName: "my-sub",
        Type:             pulsar.Shared,
    })

defer consumer.Close()

msg, err := consumer.Receive(context.Background())
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }

fmt.Printf("Received message msgId: %#v -- content: '%s'\n",
            msg.ID(), string(msg.Payload()))

```

Create a Reader:

```go
client, err := pulsar.NewClient(pulsar.ClientOptions{URL: "pulsar://localhost:6650"})
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}

defer client.Close()

reader, err := client.CreateReader(pulsar.ReaderOptions{
	Topic:          "topic-1",
	StartMessageID: pulsar.EarliestMessageID(),
})
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
defer reader.Close()

for reader.HasNext() {
	msg, err := reader.Next(context.Background())
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}

	fmt.Printf("Received message msgId: %#v -- content: '%s'\n",
		msg.ID(), string(msg.Payload()))
}
```

## Build and Test

Build the sources:

    make build

Run the tests:

    make test

Run the tests with specific versions of GOLANG and PULSAR:

    make test GOLANG_VERSION=1.18 PULSAR_VERSION=2.10.0

## Contributing

Contributions are welcomed and greatly appreciated. See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on submitting patches and the contribution workflow.

## Community

##### Mailing lists

| Name                                                      | Scope                           |                                                       |                                                           |                                                                    |
|:----------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [users@pulsar.apache.org](mailto:users@pulsar.apache.org) | User-related discussions        | [Subscribe](mailto:users-subscribe@pulsar.apache.org) | [Unsubscribe](mailto:users-unsubscribe@pulsar.apache.org) | [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/pulsar-users/) |
| [dev@pulsar.apache.org](mailto:dev@pulsar.apache.org)     | Development-related discussions | [Subscribe](mailto:dev-subscribe@pulsar.apache.org)   | [Unsubscribe](mailto:dev-unsubscribe@pulsar.apache.org)   | [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/pulsar-dev/)   |

##### Slack

Pulsar slack channel `#dev-go` at https://apache-pulsar.slack.com/

You can self-register at https://apache-pulsar.herokuapp.com/

## License

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

## Troubleshooting

### Go module 'ambiguous import' error

If you've upgraded from a previous version of this library, you may run into an 'ambigous import' error when building.

```
github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go/oauth2: ambiguous import: found package github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go/oauth2 in multiple modules
```

The fix for this is to make sure you don't have any references in your `go.mod` file to the old oauth2 module path.  So remove any lines
similar to the following, and then run `go mod tidy`.

```
github.com/apache/pulsar-client-go/oauth2 v0.0.0-20220630195735-e95cf0633348 // indirect
```
